Add blog with Nextjs app dir guide (#204)
supertokens/blog: content/adding-login-to-your-nextjs-app-using-the-app-directory-and-supertokens/index.md

---
title: Adding login to your Next.js app using the app directory with SuperTokens
date: "2023-10-12"
description: "This blog explains how to setup email password and social login with SuperTokens using the app directory in Next.js."
cover: "adding-social-login-to-your-website-with-supertokens.png"
category: "programming"
author: "Nemi Shah"
---

> Next.js is quickly becoming a really popular framework when it comes to building web applications. The framework recently introduced its `app` directory as a future replacement to the current way of organising the project and creating pages and api routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next.js has become a popular framework for building web applications. The framework recently introduced its [`app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing#the-app-router) directory as a future replacement to the current way of organising the project and creating pages and api routes.
```

> This blog will cover how to setup email password and social login with SuperTokens using the app directory in Next.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog will cover how to setup email password and social login authentication with SuperTokens using the app directory in Next.js.
```

## Setting up the Next.js project

Run the following command:

```bash
npx create-next-app <PROJECT_NAME>
```

`create-next-app` will prompt you to select details about your project, for the sake of this example we are:

- Using Typescript
- Using ESLint

> - Not using Tailwind CSS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Not** using Tailwind CSS
```

> - Not using the `src/` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Not** using the `src/` directory
```

- Using the App router

> - Not using import aliases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Not** using import aliases
```

  return handleCall(request);
}

export async function DELETE(request: NextRequest) {
  return handleCall(request);
}

export async function PUT(request: NextRequest) {
  return handleCall(request);
}

export async function PATCH(request: NextRequest) {
  return handleCall(request);
}

export async function HEAD(request: NextRequest) {
  return handleCall(request);
}
```

We call `ensureSuperTokensInit` to make sure SuperTokens is always initialised when any of the SuperTokens API routes are called. `getAppDirRequestHandler` is a helper function that the SuperTokens SDK provides, this adds request parsing, error handling etc so that we dont have to manually check for individual API results.

And thats it, the SuperTokens backend SDK is setup. To verify that we have set it up correctly you can open http://localhost:3000/api/auth/signup/email/exists?email=somerandomemail@email.com in your browser, if it is all working correctly you should see a response similar to:

```json
{"status":"OK","exists":false}
```

You can see the [full API spec](https://supertokens.com/docs/fdi) to know all the API routes that the SuperTokens backend SDKs expose.

> ### Adding SuperTokens to the frontend

Reviewer: Adding "Steps" to the headers might make this more consumable since there are both frontend and backend setup steps.

  return handleCall(request);
}
```

We call `ensureSuperTokensInit` to make sure SuperTokens is always initialised when any of the SuperTokens API routes are called. `getAppDirRequestHandler` is a helper function that the SuperTokens SDK provides, this adds request parsing, error handling etc so that we dont have to manually check for individual API results.

And thats it, the SuperTokens backend SDK is setup. To verify that we have set it up correctly you can open http://localhost:3000/api/auth/signup/email/exists?email=somerandomemail@email.com in your browser, if it is all working correctly you should see a response similar to:

```json
{"status":"OK","exists":false}
```

You can see the [full API spec](https://supertokens.com/docs/fdi) to know all the API routes that the SuperTokens backend SDKs expose.

### Step 3: Adding SuperTokens to the frontend

`supertokens-auth-react` provides a pre built UI that gets added as part of your project so that you dont have to build the login UI yourself. If you want to build your own UI you can use functions exposed by the SDK to interact with your APIs, either way you dont need to call the APIs exposed by the backend SDKs manually.

> The full set of steps for initialising SuperTokens on the frontend can be found in the [official frontend setup guide](https://supertokens.com/docs/thirdpartyemailpassword/pre-built-ui/setup/backend)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full set of steps for initialising SuperTokens with the pre-built UI can be found in the [official frontend setup guide](https://supertokens.com/docs/thirdpartyemailpassword/pre-built-ui/setup/frontend)
```
